The aim of this work is to study the asymptotic behavior of a structure made of plates of thickness 2\delta when \delta\to 0. This study is carried on within the frame of linear elasticity by using the unfolding method. It is based on several decompositions of the structure displacements and on the passing to the limit in fixed domains. We begin with studying the displacements of a plate. We show that any displacement is the sum of an elementary displacement concerning the normal lines on the middle surface of the plate and a residual displacement linked to these normal lines deformations. An elementary displacement is linear with respect to the variable x3. It is written U(^x)+R(^x)\land x3e3 where U is a displacement of the mid-surface of the plate. We show a priori estimates and convergence results when \delta \to 0. We characterize the limits of the unfolded displacements of a plate as well as the limits of the unfolded of the strained tensor. Then we extend these results to the structures made of plates. We show that any displacement of a structure is the sum of an elementary displacement of each plate and of a residual displacement. The elementary displacements of the structure (e.d.p.s.) coincide with elementary rods displacements in the junctions. Any e.d.p.s. is given by two functions belonging to H1(S;R3) where S is the skeleton of the structure (the plates mid-surfaces set). One of these functions : U is the skeleton displacement. We show that U is the sum of an extensional displacement and of an inextensional one. The first one characterizes the membrane displacements and the second one is a rigid displacement in the direction of the plates and it characterizes the plates flexion. Eventually we pass to the limit as \delta \to 0 in the linearized elasticity system, on the one hand we obtain a variational problem that is satisfied by the limit extensional displacement, and on the other hand, a variational problem satisfied by the limit of inextensional displacements.