Born in Sydney, Australia, on April 20, 1939, Chris Heyde shifted his interest from sport to mathematics thanks to inspiration from a schoolteacher. After earning an M.Sc. degree from the University of Sydney and a Ph.D. from the Australian National University (ANU), he began his academic career in the United States at Michigan State University, and then in the United Kingdom at the University of Sheffield and the University of Manchester. In 1968, Chris moved back to Australia to teach at ANU until 1975, when he joined CSIRO, where he was Acting Chief of the Division of Mathematics and Statistics. From 1983 to 1986, he was a Professor and Chairman of the Department of Statistics at the University of Melbourne. Chris then returned to ANU to become the Head of the Statistics Department, and later the Foundation Dean of the School of Mathematical Sciences (now the Mathematical Sciences Institute). Since 1993, he has also spent one semester each year teaching at the Department of Statistics, Columbia University, and has been the director of the Center for Applied Probability at Columbia University since its creation in 1993. Chris has been honored worldwide for his contributions in probability, statistics and the history of statistics. He is a Fellow of the International Statistical Institute and the Institute of Mathematical Statistics, and he is one of three people to be a member of both the Australian Academy of Science and the Australian Academy of Social Sciences. In 2003, he received the Order of Australia from the Australian government. He has been awarded the Pitman Medal and the Hannan Medal. Chris was conferred a D.Sc. honoris causa by University of Sydney in 1998. Chris has been very active in serving the statistical community, including as the Vice President of the International Statistical Institute, President of the Bernoulli Society and Vice President of the Australian Mathematical Society. He has served on numerous editorial boards, most notably as Editor of Stochastic Processes and Their Applications from 1983 to 1989, and as Editor-in-Chief of Journal of Applied Probability and Advances in Applied Probability since 1990.